[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: Now we're actually going
to go ahead and make those actions.
So what we'll do is,
we'll make a new file here.
Actually, the actions are pretty simple.
So we'll just make those actions in line,
those are actually pretty simple.
Let's head over to todo.js.
And here we have our todo lists,
just like we had yesterday.
So we're going to have to change
a lot of this stuff around, so
I think the first thing we want to do is,
let's grab this part right here.
So the input and the button.
Let's take that out.
And we'll make this another component,
right?
So I'm just going to cut that out.
That's literally just the view that's
encapsulating the text input in a button.
I'm gonna take it out.
I'm gonna make a new component.
And we'll call it TodoForm.js.
And I'm just gonna export const TodoForm.
And I'm just going to make it a stateless
React component, which is just a function.
And here's the ES6 trick,
if you just use parentheses like this,
it's an implicit return.
So I don't have to type
the return keyword.
It's implied that I want to
return if I use parentheses.
It's the same thing as doing
the brackets and then typing return.
So I'm just gonna do that because I'm
returning one element or one root.
So the thing I want to return
is just this view right here.
>> Scott Moss: So
I just gotta make sure I import those.
View and TouchableOpacity.
What else do we have?
Text and TextInput.
Let's break those onto multiple lines.
>> Scott Moss: And
we also need to import react at the top,
although we're not using it.
There we go.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Question.
Could you explain
the action.payload again?
>> Scott Moss: Action.payload is going to
make more sense when we use it right now.
But basically, action.payload is
when we dispatch an action to Redux,
the payload is the data that
we wanted to give the action.
So in our example, the payload is
gonna be the new todo that we create.
The payload is whatever data you
want to transform with the state.
Whatever you need to make a new state,
that's what you send on the payload.
So in our case, the only transformations
of the state that we did in our reducer
was literally adding a new todo.
So the payload is, in this case,
is only going to be the new todo.
We just made it a standard
to always call it payload.
So inside of all
the reducers that we make,
we can just guarantee that the thing, the
state that's being passed in is going to
be on the payload property so we're not
fishing for it, like where is this at?
>> Speaker 2: Follow up on that.
Is this a function that
will be called on a state?
>> Scott Moss: Is this a function
that will be called on a state?
Not sure what that means,
but this function,
these reducers here are going to be called
by Redux, whenever we fire an action.
So whenever we dispatch an action, Redux
is gonna go through all these reducers to
determine what the new state is.
These reducers are literally
being reduced.
If you use the reduce method on arrays,
it's the same thing.
It's just gonna reduce our
state down into a new state.
This is how Redux determines
what the next state is.
Given the old state, and given
the new actions, here's the new state.
And that is re-renders all the other
components in our application.
>> Speaker 2: Another question.
>> Scott Moss: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Why is
the import React from React
necessary if it's not used in todoForm.js?
>> Scott Moss: So we're not using it,
but these components are.
And the React is not a global,
so we have to import it.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: Isn't it
because JSX to use React?
>> Scott Moss: Exactly, yeah.
So JSX is gonna be using it.
These are actually just function calls
right here, which needs React, and
React is not global.
So we have to import at the top or
it will freak out.
>> Speaker 4: In the todo form.
>> Scott Moss: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Why isn't
there a render in there?
>> Scott Moss: Exactly, so
there isn't a render here because,
let's go back to todo.js.
Todo.js is a class that extends component,
right?
So, it's a JavaScript class, and
there's methods on here, and
one of the methods is render, right?
And the reason you would make it like
this, the reason you make a component this
way, is if you need it state,
and if you need it methods.
So you would make a class.
But todoForm,
we're actually not going to use any state.
We're probably not gonna use any methods.
And all we really need is just a view.
So React came up with a super short way
to just create a stateless component
by just returning it.
So that's why we don't need to render.
So if you have a function
that just returns a view,
it will just create that view for you.
So we may or
may not need to keep track of state.
If we do,
we'll just convert this to a class.
But for now we're gonna keep it like this.
Cool, so we got that.
The next thing I'm gonna do, I'm just
gonna make sure our styles are good.
So I'm just gonna, what styles are here?
Input new todo and button.
So, no, input form and button,
and button text, okay.
So we'll take that.
We'll say form input button,
and button text.
So we'll grab that, and
we'll head back over here.
Get the style sheet, and
we'll make a new style sheet.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
So our styles should be good to go.
All that's good to go.
And now all we have to do
is when we come back here,
we could just import that back in,
up at the top.
So we'll just import,
>> Scott Moss: Our TodoForm from TodoForm.
So now we have that component.
And we're gonna put it exactly
where it was before, right here.
TodoForm.
And we're just gonna self close it.
There we go.
Okay, so it's going to throw some errors
because it's still using like some state
and stuff, but we'll come back and
fix that when we get there.
So that's the first step.
We created a new component.
Now what we need to do is,
now that we have our TodoForm
inside of our Todo component.
We need to wrap our Todo component
in what's called a provider.
That way we pretty much just need to
connect the root of our application,
which in this case is the Todo component,
to Redux.
And the way we do that is we use the
connect method in Redux or React Redux.
So we'll say import
connect from react redux.
Again, so we need to connect
the root of our component to redux.
So if we if we do connect here,
this is going to allow us to get.
Actually no,
we're not going to do this here.
We need to do it on TodoForm.
Actually what we're gonna do
here is we're gonna use provide.
So instead of connect in here, what we're
actually gonna do is, if we head over to,
in this case I'm using Android,
so I'll go over to index.Android.
What we need to do is we have this one
component here that's literally just
returned a Todo,
which is the root of our application.
We need to wrap this in a provide.
So we'll say import provide,
which is a component, from react redux.
And we actually don't need this.
This is just a utility component,
so we don't have to pass.
If you don't use this provide component
in order to access the state or
the store in our components,
we have to use a hidden feature in react
that's not documented called context.
And it's really hard to work with.
So this keeps you from having to do that.
So you don't have to
figure out what that is.
So all we have to do now is
just wrap this Todo in provide.
>> Scott Moss: And then the reason
they call it provide is because,
what's happening here is we're gonna
provide the Todo component with a store.
So we already created a store.
So we'll say store equals,
and then we'll go ahead and
import the store that we made,
which was store from store.
So we pass in our store here.
So this is saying, I wanna provide
this store to this application, or
this component here.
So now every child component of Todo
is gonna have access to this store.
That's what's happening here.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Someone's questioning here,
I think your syntax,
is it provider or provide?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
thank you, it's provider.
I'm thinking of angular.
Sorry, there we go, provider.
There we go.
So now we have this provider.
What did I call it?
Store export const store.
All right, it's just freaking out.
It's cuz it's inside a source app,
that's why.
Source app, there we go.
Okay, thank you.
>> Scott Moss: Great.
Yeah, so that's still gonna break.
Cool, so now we have our provider.
We have our store.
The next thing we need to do,
if we head over to back to the TodoForm,
here's where we can actually like pass
some stuff in, and we can do some stuff.
So now it's freaking out because
we're still using this.state and
all this stuff here.
So instead of using this.state
we're just going to use props.
So we're gonna say props, and
we're gonna say props.newTodo.
So when you make a stateless function,
you get access to the properties
that come into your component.
So let's just say we'll have
a property called new Todo.
And we'll just bind to that.
And also, we have these methods
here that says like handle change.
We don't have a handle change here.
We also don't have a handle press.
So we'll just go ahead and
say those are gonna be other props, too.
So props.handle change.
And we don't need to bind any more.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
So it's still going to
be doing the same thing.
We just need to actually
pass in these three props.
We need to pass in a new Todo.
We need to pass in a handle change, and
we also need to pass in handle press.
So what we can do is we can come
over back up to this Todo here.
We already have those methods,
handle press handle change.
So what we can do is we
can come in here and
we can just say, TodoForm, there you go.
So your handle press is going to
be this.handlePress.bind this.
And handleChange is
gonna be the same thing.
This.handleChange.bind this.
And then what we can do for the value
is we'll just have to make a new value.
So it's already a new Todo,
so we'll say, value is this.,
what did we call it?
New Todo?
Yeah, let's just call it
value to keep it the same.
Props.value.
So then we'll come here and
say this.state.newTodo.
There we go.
So now it's literally the same thing.
We just passed in the props and stuff.
Let's refresh this.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
So it's still there.
Exactly the same thing.
And if we type, it still works.
See how we converted that over?
That had absolutely nothing
to do with Redux, but
I just wanted to convert that over.
Because now we're about to convert over
the Todo list, which does use Redux.
So when we start using props you'll
kind of understand why we did this.
Does this makes sense?
Why we did this like this?
So now we have this component.
Now we can use this form in
other places as well, and
it's not tied down to just Todos.
It's literally just the input and
a button, and
it doesn't know anything else other
than the props that you pass to it.
What to happen when we change the input?
What value the input is?
And what to happen when
we press the button?
That’s it.